[NATSUME]
What exactly changed your mind
about helping me
become a soldier?
[KABURAGI]
Good question.
Guess I was curious about how
a bug could get by in this world
if someone gave it a chance.
Does this mean
that girl's a bug?
So please, hang on.
Dad's gonna be home real soon.
Wait for me.
[MURO]
Get moving, now!
[AID UNIT]
Yes, sir!
[MEDIC A] She needs a
transfusion! Get her more blood!
[MEDIC B]
Why is there a kid here?
[MEDIC A]
Shit, no pulse!
Pushing two cc's epinephrine!
Hang in there, kid!
[gasps]
Yes!
[MEDIC B]
We got her back!
[MEDIC A]
She's a tough one.
[MEDIC B]
Thank goodness!
[KABURAGI] So she made it back,
but her chip stayed dead.
[NATSUME] Huh? We're jumping
straight into an actual fight?
[KABURAGI] That's the
fastest way to go about it.
I can't guarantee
you'll get into The Power.
But I can at least teach you to
keep yourself alive in battle...
...if you can handle it.
[NATSUME]
Yeah? Well bring it on!
What's that doing here?
All right.
Spoonwormers are pretty weak
and completely edible,
the perfect training target.
Lots of Gears start with these.
Is that so?
Step one. You need to make
the Gadoll deploy its zone
when you're ready
to start the fight.
Boss, I'm not ready.
Can't we slow down a little?
[KABURAGI]
Do you know about zones?
Cool, guess not.
Zones. They're like
the Gadoll's shields, right?
[KABURAGI sighs]
The Gadoll do use them
to defend themselves,
but there's more
to it than that.
Inside the zone is
a magnetic field
that makes gravity unstable.
Uh! No, no, no, wait!
What's this weird light?
[KABURAGI]
See the magnetic waves?
Maybe.
Is that what the
little sparklies are?
That's right.
And these tanks allow us
to ride on the waves.
I see. What's that?
[KABURAGI]
Those are the arteries
that pump oxyone
through its body.
[NATSUME]
Oxyone.
Gadoll blood, right?
[KABURAGI]
Exactly.
It's the fuel that
drives everything,
including Deca‐dence itself.
You need oxyone
to fire your weapons.
You also need it to ride
the magnetic waves.
If you run out, you got no
defense and no movement.
In other words, you're screwed.
So never let your tank run dry.
Lucky for you,
staying close to loose oxyone
will siphon it up
automatically into the tank.
Great, understood.
[KABURAGI] Mid‐size Gadoll
regenerate their health quickly.
To take 'em down,
you have to get 'em bleeding.
But if we try to hit
one from this distance,
we're not gonna
reach the arteries.
[gasps]
It can transform!
So we can't strike
from a distance,
and it regrows lost limbs.
Gotta get in
and smack it around.
Best of luck.
Huh?
Just relax your body
and ride the waves.
Concentrate.
It's no real danger
to you except for its tail.
Hit the arteries.
Hey, are you listening to me?
How am I alive?
[gurgles]
[KABURAGI]
Watch.
Here!
[KABURAGI] Fighting Gadoll
is about efficiency.
You're trying to bleed them dry
using as little of your own
energy as possible.
[NATSUME]
Got it, Boss.
I don't feel so good.
[KABURAGI]
No whining allowed.
I wasn't.
I was just letting you know.
Hey. Do you see that?
[NATSUME]
Huh?
Over there.
It had a friend nearby.
[screams]
What's the deal with this place?
I guess we must be near a nest.
Or a tutorial zone,
depending on who's asking.
Huh?
Next one's all yours, kid.
Now step up and
show me what you can do.
[gasps]
Huh? Someone's training you?
Yeah, it seemed like
the right time to start.
The Gadoll are being quiet.
[FEI] And the oxyone's
getting low too.
Man, I am so sore.
It's tough, for real.
But I can't stop pushing myself.
If I get into The Power,
it'll all be worth it!
[FEI]
Please stop.
Huh?
[FEI] Tankers should stay inside
Deca‐dence where it's safe.
I just saw the outside
for the first time
when I went for butchery
duty after a battle.
It's hell out there.
I don't see how any of us could
survive in a place like that.
The Gears are natural warriors.
Even they were
dying by the dozen.
Natsume, if you
go out there to fight,
you won't come back alive.
Was losing that arm not enough?
Huh?
[FEI]
I didn't mean...
[NATSUME]
I should probably turn in soon.
I've got training tomorrow.
I don't get it.
[yells]
[sighs]
Every part of me is in pain.
[KABURAGI]
Uh...
I know they're bred
to fight and all, but still...
...it's insane how easy
the Gears make it look.
You don't know how hard
it is until you've tried it.
[KABURAGI]
If you asked one of them,
they'd say it's insane
that there's Tankers
who want to fight the Gadoll.
Would they?
I mean there are already
Tanker forces in The Power,
aren't there?
[KABURAGI] There are some
Tankers who have authorization
to fight with them,
but the force as a
whole is almost all Gears.
Getting authorization puts them
a step ahead of me, I suppose.
I always wanted to be just
like Kurenai when I grew up.
[KABURAGI]
Hmm?
[NATSUME]
The Tankers' greatest champion.
Queen of the battlefield.
She's been my idol ever
since I was little.
Beautiful, crazy powerful,
and a natural born leader.
Everything I wanna be.
So you wanna fight
alongside Kurenai?
[gasps]
[KABURAGI]
You know you don't have to join
The Power to take
part in the battle.
I'm not sure I have
what it takes.
Are you giving up?
[GEAR A] Pulled the
trigger on a new piece.
[GEAR B] Nice. Can't wait
to get out there again.
No way.
I'm going to join The Power.
And I'll do whatever it takes!
No more whining from now on.
Sir!
[KABURAGI] Your body's
gotta get used to floating!
And it's never gonna happen
if you stay that tense!
[KABURAGI] Relax and let
yourself ride the waves!
[KABURAGI]
Quick and smooth.
No wasted motion.
Keep doing it until you can load
the needle cleanly every time.
The regulator lets you throttle
the flow of your oxyone.
Crucial for navigation
and evasion.
I got it. Look, Boss!
I got the Spoonwor‐‐
[KABURAGI]
Situational awareness.
Don't drop your guard.
[HUGIN]
Kaburagi.
For 13 days,
five hours, and 28 minutes.
You have performed
no recovery work.
Because you haven't
been giving me any leads.
It would seem you've
misunderstood your function.
Recovery agents are expected
to actively seek out
and report bugs.
Notwithstanding the
peculiar circumstances
of your employment.
Would you assert that there
are no bugs around you?
[KABURAGI]
Guess so.
[HUGIN]
You would be incorrect.
Now, reassess.
Find the bugs
and eliminate them.
[HUGIN]
You've yet to understand
why the world must
be free of bugs.
Bugs are a threat to order.
Long ago, the humans
failed to maintain order,
and their folly
brought them to ruin.
[MUNIN]
Pepeke, pepeke!
We exist for the system's
sake and none other.
Do not forget that.
For the world
must be free of bugs.
[KABURAGI]
The world must be free of bugs.
[ANNOUNCER] In the latter
half of the 25th century,
the pollution in the
earth's atmosphere
reached a critical point,
leaving the planet
at risk of becoming
completely uninhabitable.
[ANNOUNCER] The concept of the
nation‐state was abandoned,
and transnational firms capable
of cyborg development
consolidated their power.
As the human population
spiraled toward extinction,
the cyborg population exploded.
In order to protect our position
as global market leaders,
we at Solid Quake
acquired the rights
to the remainder
of the human species,
enclosing a vast tract
of the Eurasian landmass
in a dome to use
as their habitat.
Giving rise to our cutting‐edge
entertainment experience.
Deca‐dence.
To mitigate the
existential threat
humankind posed to itself,
our company introduced a fully
autonomous system of governance
able to respond impartially
to all situations.
The system determines the most
productive course of action,
which individual units
then carry out.
Within this framework,
a harmonious and prosperous
new society has formed.
That is all.
Have a profitable day.
‐‐[knocking]
‐‐Huh?
[NATSUME]
Hey, Boss!
Come on, rise and shine!
What for?
[NATSUME]
Sorry, I know it's your day off,
but there's something
I wanted to‐‐
[NATSUME]
Pipe! I'm so glad you remember‐‐
He just wants to get out.
That's actually perfect.
Guess what I brought with me?
Tada!
It looks great and it's
exactly the right size!
What's your game, here?
You said that you didn't want
anything for yourself, right?
So you made
whatever that thing is?
It's a disguise so
Pipe can go outside.
[KABURAGI]
Hm.
What?!
Yeah! It'll be fine.
Nobody'll think anything of it.
[KABURAGI]
Stop. Shut that door!
Hey, get back here!
[laughs]
Isn't this fun, Pipe?
[KABURAGI] Do they understand
each other because they're bugs?
[NATSUME]
Look at that smile!
[KABURAGI]
Ugh!
[laughs]
Great.
Does this mean you
got what you came for?
Uh... Well, not quite.
[KABURAGI]
That's true.
Wasn't sure you noticed.
[NATSUME]
Yeah.
When the moment comes,
I'm always a little bit slow
on the control lever, right?
[KABURAGI] And that
little bit could get you killed
in a real fight.
[NATSUME] I know.
Problem is, trying to use
the weapon with my
right hand would be worse.
How do I put it?
My life would be so much
harder without this,
I know I'm lucky to have it.
Really, my arm's a blessing.
I treasure it.
But sometimes.
I can't help feeling
like it's also the thing
that's holding me back.
Just a big metal weight
that I can't get rid of.
Then I start feeling
guilty, y'know?
It deserves better than that.
Sorry, Boss. Guess
I lost my train of thought.
[KABURAGI]
Come with me.
[NATSUME] Uh.
Wait, where are we going?
Boss. Are we in danger?
'Cause this place is
sketching me out bad.
How long until we can leave?
‐‐[KABURAGI] In here.
‐‐[NATSUME gasps]
Wow, there was a
weapon shop here?
Well, hey, there!
There's a rare sight.
Kaburagi with company.
And even a pet? Who knew?
Hm? What's that arm?
Looks like a pretty old model.
Bring it here, lemme see.
Uh... Don't get any funny ideas.
Huh?
[laughs]
What's with the kid, Kabu?
All right. We'll be in the back.
Let's go.
[NATSUME]
Yeah, sure.
[laughs]
[NATSUME]
What are we doing back here?
[KABURAGI]
Hold out your right hand.
[NATSUME] Don't you get
any funny ideas, either, Boss!
[KABURAGI]
Not even a little, now sit.
Hurry up.
[NATSUME] Jeez, I was joking,
you don't hafta‐‐
What the hell are you doing?
[KABURAGI]
Hold still.
[NATSUME]
It's still attached ya know!
Hold on a sec!
Wait! Ow, ow, ow!
This... This is amazing, Boss!
[KABURAGI] If you need to, all
these parts are interchangable
It's so cool, and it can
even do fine movements!
Now check this out.
[gasps]
[SHOPKEEP
whistles appreciatively]
Damn, that's slick.
So we've got our
hose valve right here.
Interesting.
You gave it an
integrated compressor.
Now let's just‐‐load
this sucker up.
You're good to go.
[NATSUME]
Uh! Thank you so much.
See that, Boss?
This is so cool!
Your arm doesn't have
to hold you back anymore.
Now it can be your weapon.
It can?
[KABURAGI]
Thanks for letting me do this.
Naturally.
We need to test out
your new weapon.
That shopkeeper
seemed like a good guy.
He sent us off
with plenty of needles.
[alarm sounds]
Gadoll!
Where are they?
I don't see anything!
The hell?
[NATSUME]
What was that?
Oh crap, Pipe's gone!
Now, wait a sec
Pipe!
Hey, come back here!
Distance, 2200.
Engagement projected at 0750.
Eight species detected.
Mid‐size.
Octhulhu, avispine,
seldurum, spoonwormer,
nemollis, burrn, darumoss,
and megaloain.
Forty‐five total,
no large‐sizes.
[OPERATOR A]
Propulsion damage at 32 percent.
We're immobilized!
Prepare to open sub‐sortie gates
one through three immediately.
We're facing them here.
What is it?
[KABURAGI] Bad timing, I know,
but our friend has escaped.
Could you send me
the location data?
[MINATO]
What are you doing exactly?
[KABURAGI]
Adapting to the situation.
[MINATO]
Give me some time.
[GEAR C]
Go, go, go!
[GEAR D]
Yeah, cave fight!
[GEAR E]
Let's beat some ass!
[KABURAGI] Did you seriously
land inside someone's car?
Damn it all.
Huh? Freeze!
Why aren't you attacking me?
Bugged.
I should report this,
shouldn't I?
Welcome to your
new home, little buddy.
Be careful.
They say the world must
be free of bugs, you know?
[KABURAGI]
Shit!